One of the most common database management systems used in web applications is my esky well.
Traditionally this has often been the first relational database management system that web developers
learn to use and there's still a lot of material available online on how to program HP with esky Well
at the beginning of the course.
We installed the exact package.
This used to come with my esky well but nowadays the movie DV database management system is included
instead.
Maria dbe is a backwards compatible drop in replacement for my escudo.
This means that all the miniscule databases software and HP code written to work with my esky well are
a hundred percent compatible with me ADP.
It was created by the original developers of my esky well as a fully free and open source alternative
to my escudo.
Before we can access the database server we need to make sure it's running in the access control panel
in Windows.
Which says my esky well even though it's actually miria d.b..
They just haven't changed this label in the application.
We need to make sure that this is green which means that it's running.
If it's not you need to click on the start button to start it in Mac OSX the control panel looks something
like this.
And again it says my esky well but it is in fact miriad be and this icon needs to be green.
If it's not running you need to click on this database line and click the start button.
And it's the same in Linux.
To administer my esky Well arm a vdb We're going to use p h.
P.
My admin.
This is a free software package written in P HP that runs in a browser it comes included with x cemp
to access a local installation of p p my admin.
We go to the eurail local host slash thp my admin
on the right.
We have some details about the computer that this is running on and this will be different depending
on your computer.
But one thing to note is that we're running.
Maria B even though the exempt control panel says my esky Well they are a hundred percent compatible
though so this is nothing to worry about.
On the left.
Here we have a list of all the databases on this server a single installation of memory idb can contain
more than one database.
In fact you can have as many as you like.
These databases here are created by default.
When X is installed and are used internally by the database server and by HP my admin.
So we won't touch these.
Let's go ahead and create a new database to do that.
We click on databases here at the top and first we need to supply a database name.
You can put anything you like in here but it's a good idea to keep it.
Lower case use underscores instead of spaces.
And of course make it meaningful.
For example if it's a database for my blog I might call it daily blog.
Offer an online shop.
I might call it my store.
And so on.
As we're developing a content management system let's call ours c m s.
Next we need to choose a collation.
There's a very long list to choose from here.
So which one do we choose.
The colation is basically a set of rules for how the database server compares strings of text string
comparisons are used when you search the database for specific data.
For example searching a user database for all users.
Dave there is a detailed explanation of how it works here in the my esky Well documentation.
So the reason for all this choice depends on the character set.
You are using the main language that text in your database is going to be in and so on.
However if you choose this one.
This uses the utf 8 M.B for a character set which contains all the characters for our most all modern
languages and the Unicode version of it includes a more complete comparison algorithm for comparing
Strings.
So unless you have a specific reason to use another one I recommend you choose this one.
Then we click on Create and that's it.
We've created our database.
The next step is optional but I highly recommend that you do it to access a database for mph.
P As will see shortly.
You need a username and password.
The root user has access to all databases including the new one we just created.
However in x samp by default this user has no password.
This is a bad practice to be used to.
So instead of using the root user to access our database will add a new user account for this database.
First we enter the user name.
This can be anything you like but as we we're going to be using this user account to access the database
from our website I'll collect c s w w w.
Next we'll change the hostname to local as were only going to be accessing this database from the same
computer and for the password we'll generate one by clicking the Generate button and this gives us a
nice secure password.
You could argue that this isn't really necessary as the database is only accessible on your own computer
but it's a good practice to get used to.
Before we continue you need to make sure you've copied and saved this password somewhere as we'll need
it later.
Once we've created this user there's no way to view what password we used.
So if you forget it you'll have to come back in here and change it.
The check box grant all privileges on database see mass is already checked which means that this user
will be allowed to do anything without a database which is what we want.
So all we need to do now is scroll down and click go at the bottom and we've created it our user.
So now our database is ready to start storing data.